hey what's up this video is gonna deal
with a particular lie from a particular
liar
a particular controversy at the moment
but in keeping with my general practice
of trying to make videos that I would
find interesting if I come back and
watch them myself five years from now
when the controversy the moment is
forgotten I'm also gonna speak a little
bit more broadly about the question of
where these lies come from how is it
that the Internet is so massively
fertile so productive in creating this
form of slander lies and defamation and
talking about one pattern that I really
see again and again within the vegan
demi-monde maybe it's a pattern found
throughout political videos or just
political discourse in the internet I
don't know maybe you guys can reflect on
that you guys can tell me if you've seen
it elsewhere and last year when all this
thing happened when dr. evil actually
contacted this is 16 year old girl and
was asking her if she's coming to
Chiangmai I was talking about this whole
thing straight like with her and she
actually showed me the emails he sent
her and he said her like few emails but
from what I remember from the year ago
when she actually showed me these emails
I saw them myself with my own eyes it
would be easy to pass over this first
portion of vegan Ava's argument without
making any comment on to take it for
granted but what she's doing here is
really quite significant first and
foremost she's creating a sense of
mystery a mystique about a situation
that is in no way mysterious there's
nothing mysterious but of whatsoever and
she suggests you to the audience that
she has inside knowledge that because
she saw these emails for herself she
knows something you don't know something
you can't know she has access to
information that isn't available to you
right now by a click of the mouse and
that is profoundly false and misleading
because the reality is those emails were
posted on Julia Bors
Blagh and thus when private
correspondence became public they were
posted also on my own YouTube channel in
a video that's still quite enjoyable and
amusing to watch where I read out the
emails and laugh about it and talk about
some of the broader political
implications for what's going on in
veganism right now it's still a good
video and all of that unfolded before
durianrider got involved before anyone
outside in that sense had taken any
interest in this but there were a lot of
people who were interested at that time
because Julia Bohr was a disaster Julia
Bohr was a train wreck and not happening
in slow motion and quite a lot of people
I'll put some of these emails on screen
right now quite a lot of people were
looking at her with real concern and
wondering what they could do to help as
this kid went deeper and deeper into a
weight loss cult that for her was
causing weight gain out of all control
and that was basically encouraging her
to fantasize that she was going to have
a career as an Instagram model as a
YouTube star as a professional athlete
and even as an Olympic athlete because
you have level at a time when she was
throwing away all of her opportunities
in terms of education saying she was
nodding that she wasn't a drop at a
school and just devote herself to
bicycle training and basically trying to
replicate durian riders form of internet
fame attended variety it was a really
strange situation that a lot of people
took I guess I could say a compassionate
interest in and other people just sat
back amazed looking at the trade rack
then you're up daddy I how do you 16 do
you don't listen to [ __ ] anyone else
but us Julia listen to me is enough
really everyone else is white noise it
doesn't matter you listen to the
directors this is the king and queen so
I'm like 190 kilos doesn't matter you
you carry more weight than me I'm like a
tape of a six-foot tapeworm you know you
don't [ __ ] around he's not like you
don't need to cut out
if your goal is to be lean as [ __ ] and
look like freely about tell me 20
otherwise if you want to be like 180
kilos manic [ __ ] slit your wrists cut
yourself she's jealous of me because I
can smash it as much rice and jam at
sugar and whatever good stuff I can
vegan pizza without having a drop of
guilt and knowing that I will be lean
anyways in like a couple of years and
then she will be staying there jealous
knocking on her what echoes and be like
[ __ ] this [ __ ] and she was still be
sitting there under her blankets in
front of her laptop writing rage
comments excuse me where's my cucumber
stop being frustrated little [ __ ] just
because I tell the truth and you [ __ ]
know it
you're the ebook advert at the end of
her video I'm a really victim June order
like what how does that work sorry
you've been assaulted or right - what
have you done [ __ ] so another
question I know I hardly about this in
private but I thought I talk about this
on camera because so many people maybe
have issues with this and I have what if
I'm proud of the person who is really
getting excited pretty easily i
overstressed about things and then I
have a level genius remember from the
year ago when she actually showed me
these emails I saw them myself with my
own eyes
and he was asked Harry if she's coming
to Chiangmai and she literally like held
it told him through like [ __ ] off like I
don't want to talk to you and he said
okay this is your decision but by the
way you're gonna regret this
so this is the core of the lie before
Durham Ryder and his followers like
vegan Ava were claiming that the emails
were flirtatious and they're not and
everyone saw the emails and now it's a
year later and we have a new lie
claiming that the emails were
threatening
and they're not and we're talking about
like four sentences worth of email here
but what's significant is that this lie
was set up by suggesting to you she saw
it directly with her own eyes as if you
haven't as if you couldn't as if she has
inside information you don't have about
a complex or mysterious situation when
there's nothing complex about it at all
he said okay this is your decision but
by the way you're gonna regret this like
this is not a proper behavior first of
all you shouldn't talk like this to
anyone and second of all you shouldn't
talk and try to threaten try to threaten
anyone
but especially when they are like 16
years old so this is the email on screen
right now one sentence long followed by
a smiley face emoji one sentence that is
now being interpreted as a threat and
that formerly was interpreted or so
wildly misinterpreted to justify threats
of violence against me criminal
allegations against me
unbelievable defamation daxing bad
behavior on the internet that definitely
has had a negative impact on my personal
life on my professional life on my
future career prospects and yes my
status within the digital demi-monde of
aspiring vegan activists this one
sentence is the peg in the wall that all
of these ridiculous lies are being hung
upon this is a little bit too much when
someone doesn't want to talk to you
you're gonna threaten them because they
don't want to be friends this lie was
incredibly easy to expose if you're not
already familiar with exactly what was
said the emails you can pause and read
what is on screen right now as all the
context you really need folks this
happens
again and again I see this pattern and
the first fatal footstep is from sense
into nonsense from reality into fantasy
drawing the audience in by creating a
sense of mystique that there's something
concealed from you there's something
intriguing and then that the person
making the video the person appealing to
your sense of curiosity that they have
the solution to that riddle either
through insight knowledge or just sheer
speculation and every time I see
thousands of people taking the bait
no matter how implausible the story is I
mean genuinely nobody believes not one
person has ever talked to me who
sincerely believed there was a romance
or any kind of potential romantic
tension between myself and Julia Bohr
nobody never once have I spoken to
someone who had that apprehension on
camera or off camera face to face on the
Internet or real life what have you
never nobody found that believable and
yet there's something about this format
of setting up the lie as the solution to
a mystery and exposing something
concealed that is incredibly
intoxicating to audiences on the
Internet right this is a pattern I see
again and again I'm not gonna say too
much about it but instead of questioning
what are the facts instead of
questioning how do we know the facts I
see again and again people asking what
was this person's motivation for doing
what they did they engage in speculation
about what motivated me to do things
without even asking themselves how they
know what supposedly happened and very
often their only source of information
is durianrider directly or indirectly
durianrider has a very clear motive to
lie he is a very clear track record of
lying of proven lies demonstrable lies
falsified claims and the reckless lack
of interest in the truth the lack of
interest and even hearing one side of
the story is then made much more
damaging by this habit of basically
saying well why do you suppose this guy
committed through what do you think
motivated this behavior I see people
indulging in that kind of speculation
every day when they have not first asked
what happened how do we know what
happened and in so many cases these
things can be domestic IED with a pretty
quick Google search by watching the
videos in my own channel on the same
topic or just by straight up asking me
for the record close did not ask me
close did not examine any facts when he
made the statement that there is
evidence to show that it's a scam that
is a complete lie and lie is the correct
word and I know that because I had a
direct Skype conversation with Klaus
after he had recorded this interview
with Charles you can cheetah but before
he had uploaded it and as a result of
that conversation a close just
completely admitted that he had no idea
what he was talking about when he made
this statement he bleeped out the word
scam now Klaus that only establishes
that you lied that you are aware of the
lie that you failed to take
responsibility for the lie you never
lifted a finger to set things right now
as a Segway some of you may ask is it
reasonable to suppose that somebody like
Klaus or somebody in these other
examples is really intentionally lying
isn't it sometimes the case instead that
they're just mislead by misinformation
on the Internet by lies that other
people have told well a large part of
what I see going on and this is I think
crucial to why the Internet is just such
a fertile ground for these lies growing
out of control is that people will
consciously or unconsciously
solicit information to confirm their own
bias and ignore evidence to the contrary
what else has he done which is- like
it's just it's beyond words i called
through a single positive thing is done
i can only think of negative things
messed up
i've already listed it they feel that
everybody knows something and therefore
it's an established fact and what do
they mean by everybody knows they mean
that they see a lot of anonymous
comments on internet forums on social
media whether that's twitter or youtube
or facebook that confirm what they want
to believe and they are not even
remembering the extent to which they're
ignoring evidence the contrary and
they're not even investigating into or
thinking about what the real sources of
that information might be whether it's
plausible or implausible reliable or
unreliable now for someone like Klaus
who is allegedly running a news show
that's really pretty unforgivable he's
supposed to conform to a higher standard
but it's interesting in comment sections
and internet discussion forms various
kinds you could also see people who
whether they're conscious of their own
bias or not they see what they want to
see they hear what they want to hear and
then they write back saying tell me more
soliciting more lies and again this is
why it's so generative it's so
productive because there's if anything
an appetite to embellish the story to
expand on the lie once it has begun the
example I have up on screen right now
combines several these tendencies it
shows several tendencies in one short
message and in footsoldiers response to
it in an earlier video I demonstrated
that when his viewers presented him with
evidence that contradicted his whole
line of reasoning that showed that he
was telling lies about me he was
misrepresenting the situation very
fundamentally ethically and otherwise he
simply dismisses that information it's
not what he wants to hear but on the
contrary this anonymous commenter
right sin to him and he wants to hear it
and he wants to hear more and he wants
to expand on it he wants to elaborate on
the lies he's already telling whether or
not he's conscious anymore that he is
lying whether or not he thinks of
himself as soliciting more false and
misleading information the one sense in
which I don't blame foot soldier for
doing what he does here is that the
nature of this lie is intriguing it
seems to create a mystery right off the
bat we have some sense that there's
something mysterious and there's
something concealed about my own past
history of studying ancient languages
what is it that I said exactly about
studying an ancient language what is it
about my own experience learning to
speak Chinese what is it that's being
hinted at either about me as concealing
something or this person having
discovered something revealed something
it is intriguing even though it is
totally implausible and you could with
one Google search very rapidly find that
for example the dead language he's
talking about I didn't study it for 18
months I studied it for years and years
look at all of the pages and hours of
video I've filled up talking about my
experience studying this language
including long long discussions on
YouTube I may actually be the only
person on the internet to discuss what
it's like to study that language at such
length in such depth providing advice
and providing resources for other people
said in language so a very brief Google
search can reveal how ridiculous this
allegation is but it's not even clear
why the lie is being told aside from
trying to create this sense of mystique
something is being concealed about my
studying in ancient dead language about
my stay in Chinese and about my job when
in fact there is nothing nothing
serious about my job there is nothing
mysterious about my visa paperwork
nothing anyone felt they didn't know
enough about my job history and it's
just ridiculous you could find out far
more about me than you can about most
elected officials in the United States
and I don't do that for the sake of
transparency fundamentally I do that
because that is what my channel is about
now in this case it may seem harmless it
may seem you know frankly pointless and
childish that somebody would take the
time to tell these lies and create a
sense of mystique around my work history
my scholarly history my language
research history my language learning
history so on and so forth it becomes a
lot more pernicious when you're looking
at people telling lies about my divorce
my family life my relationship with my
own parents my relation with my own
daughter
why why are you telling these lies and
why has this become so normal within the
vegan demi-monde that it's ignored that
people treated like nothing I really
confronted another youtuber lately dumb
vegan because he had a video in which he
said in passing without thinking twice
about it
you know really just kind of an awful
thing suggesting that I was a terrible
person today that had some terrible
personality disorder because of a
traumatic childhood now that's not
defamation that's just a horrible thing
to say about somebody on the internet
it's a horrible thing to say about
somebody publicly and frankly even if
you're gossiping in private I think you
should be ashamed to say that and I
wrote to him saying you know look man in
other categories on the internet people
say relatively minor things like
suggesting that somebody only did
something because their parents don't
really love them this is a really
psychologically ugly thing to say how is
it that in veganism we've sunk so low
that you say this and think nothing of
it this just passes without a second
thought and he wrote back and he
apologized to me so you know kudos to
him for that
but guys we all really need to look in
the mirror and check ourselves we have
to check this tenancy because it's sad
and it's sick and it's disgusting and
it's wrong and I'm sure none of you want
to hear more about how I learned Chinese
over how many years and to what level
but I'm happy to talk about all that
stuff I have videos of myself speaking
Chinese I've never made any misleading
or false claims but my experience that
language I've never made misleading or
false claims about my experience with
Palli which is an ancient language from
India similar to Sanskrit it's probably
heard of Sanskrit if you haven't heard
of Palli or any of the other languages
or areas of research have been involved
in there's no mystery from about that on
the contrary there's plenty of horrid
honest information that you can verify
with your own eyes if you're making up
lies about my divorce why is it that the
people making up those lies have never
read the account publicly stated on my
own blog about that
I mean I'm someone about the
extraordinary honesty right about that
not in the interest of transparency
fundamentally because one day my own
daughter is gonna read that vlog and is
gonna wonder how her parents got
divorced why her parents got divorced
and it is a flattering version of the
events not flattering to me but
flattering towards my ex-wife because I
know my daughter is gonna read it one
day and I don't really want to say
anything bad about her mom so it frankly
leaves out just about everything that
was her fault and that she could be
planed for so it's a flattering polite
account with a view to my own future
fundamentally guys abolish yell is not a
channel about veganism it's a channel
about me and my life the reason why I'm
honest is neither for your entertainment
nor to frustrate this remarkably large
community of people who devote their
time and energy to making it lies above
me I keep it real because that's why I
came on YouTube in the first place and
that's still the reason why I come on
YouTube day after day I quit Buddhism as
a religion because I did not want to
part of a religion that was built on
lies for me the refusal to be part of a
religion is based on a lie they refuse
to be part of a political movement
that's based on a lie guys I'm the one
person out here who is keeping it all
the way real because if I wasn't I
wouldn't have any reason to come on the
Internet at all